#summary Under Construction
#labels Phase-Support

== Robotium Changelog ==

== Robotium 3.2.1 ==
In this release many bugs have been fixed and new functionality has been implemented.

*New Functionality:*
   * typeText(int index, String text)  
   * typeText({{{EditText}}} editText, String text)  
   * finishInactiveActivities()  

*Issues Fixed:*
   * getCurrentActivity() not returning the correct Activity when back key is used (on Android 3.0+) 
   

== Robotium 3.1 ==
Most efforts have gone into improvements and also fixing issues that were 
introduced in the 3.0 release. Also, many improvements have been made 
in the activity methods. If you have had issues with 
finishOpenedActivities() then please try this version instead. 

*New Functionality:*
   * getView(Class viewClass, int index)   //Returns a view with a given class and index

== Robotium 3.0 ==
This release is 
the fastest, lightest and most stable version of Robotium yet. More or 
less all the code has been modified and improved in one way or 
another, leading to a very stable version. 

One big change which breaks backward compatibility is that activities 
are now closed with the new method finishOpenedActivities(). 
Finalize() does not close activities any more. If you have used 
finalize() before, you will need to change that to 
finishOpenedActivities() instead. 

*New Functionality:*
   * finishOpenedActivities()  //Closes the opened activities (replaces inalize()) 
   * waitForText(String text, int minimumNumberOfMatches, long timeout, boolean scroll, boolean onlyVisible) 
   * waitForView(View view) 
   * waitForView(View view, int timeout, boolean scroll) 

*Modified methods:* 
   * finalize() does not close activies anymore! 
   * searchText() also searches error messages. 

== Robotium 2.5 ==
Robotium now supports 
Android 3.2, Honecomb. Some minor annoying issues have also been fixed 
to improve the overall experience. 

*New Functionality:*
   * getText(String text, boolean onlyVisible) 
   * getButton(String text, boolean onlyVisible) 
   * getEditText(String text, boolean onlyVisible)

== Robotium 2.4 ==
Most of the work in this release has 
gone into correcting defects and improving Robotium. The assert 
methods have been re-designed in order to improve stability. 

*New Functionality:*
   * waitForActivity(String name) which includes a default timeout of 20 seconds (similar to the other waitFor methods). 

== Robotium 2.3 ==
It is mainly a maintenance release where 
the issues reported have been corrected. 

*New Functionality:*
   * getActivityMonitor() which returns the activity monitor used by Robotium. Some users have requested the possibility to disable it in order to set up their own activity monitors

== Robotium 2.2 ==
The biggest news in this release is a 
new constructor which allows for only the instrumentation object to be 
given: Solo(Instrumentation instrumentation). The Activity can later 
be started and Robotium will then pick it up. This will solve some 
problems that have been experienced when a swift splash screen has 
been failed to be recognized by Robotium as it happened before it was 
set up. Now the activity can be started after Robotium. 

Also the whole view fecthing mechanism has been modified and improved 
so that issues experienced with dialogs are solved. Changes has also 
been made to improve performance and memory footprint. 

*New Functionality:*
   * Solo(Instrumentation instrumentation) 
   * clickLongInList(int line) 
   * clickLongInList(int line, int index) 
   * clickLongInList(int line, int index, int time) 
   * setSlidingDrawer(int index, int status) 
   * setSlidingDrawer({{{SlidingDrawer}}} slidingDrawer, int status) 

== Robotium 2.1 ==
This release 
not only brings new features but also a lot of internal changes and 
improvements. Most of the work in this release has gone into making 
Robotium better then before. The memory footprint has been reduced 
which results in a more effective and lighter version of Robotium. 
Furthermore the improvements that have been made to the whole scroll 
and view fetching functionality makes this the smartest Robotium to 
date. 

*New Functionality:*
   * waitForView(Class{{{<T>}}} viewClass) 
   * getCurrentViews() 
   * pressMenuItem(int index, int itemsPerRow) 
   * sendKey() supports any key event 
   * clickInList() has been completely re-designed to support all list implementations. 
   * Scrolling of scrollViews has also been completely re-designed to increase speed and accuracy

== Robotium 2.0.1 ==
The 2.0 issues have been solved and 
now it should work really well. It has been optimized and improved and 
it is definitely faster then previous releases. It also supports more 
(complex) applications. A lot of methods have been rewritten for this 
release. 

*New Functionality:*
   * setDatePicker(index, year, monthOfYear, dayOfMonth) 
   * setTimePicker(index, hour, minute) 
   * clickLongOnView(view, time) 
   * clickLongOnText(String text, int match, int time) 
   * setProgressBar(index, progress) 
   * Full support for {{{ExpandableListViews}}}

== Robotium 2.0 ==
In this release two major problems have been resolved. The first problem was that in some application all views were not found. The second problem was that finalize() sometimes did not successfully close down Applications when used in a tearDown. To solve these problems some parts of Robotium have been fully rewritten and 
improved.  Besides resolving these issues, optimizations and bugfixes 
have also been made. 

*New Functionality:*
   * setDatePicker(index, year, monthOfYear, dayOfMonth) 
   * setTimePicker(index, hour, minute) 
   * clickLongOnView(view, time) 
   * clickLongOnText(String text, int match, int time) 
   * setProgressBar(index, progress) 
   * Full support for {{{ExpandableListViews}}}

== Robotium 1.9.0 ==
This is a release where most of the 
work has gone into stability issues. After increasing so much in 
functionality ever since the first release, this work was needed in 
order to make the existing functionality perform well. Quality wise I 
am very happy with this release. A new method waitForView() has been 
implemented which more or less all the methods now use before trying 
to do something. The scrolling of lists has been completely re-done 
and now the scroll is not only very fast but also controlled and 
precise. 

*New Functionality:*
   * waitForView(final Class{{{<T>}}} viewClass, final int minimumNumberOfMatches, final int timeout) Waits for a view a certain amount of time and returns true or false depending on result.
   * enterText({{{EditText}}} editText) enters text into an {{{EditText}}}
   * clearEditText({{{EditText}}} ediText) clears an {{{EditText}}}
   * isTextChecked(String text) checks if a {{{CheckedTextView}}} or {{{CompoundButton}}} is checked 

*Re-written functionality:*
   * {{{ScrollList}}}() that is now twice as fast as before and exactly one page is scrolled at a time. 
   * Multiple changes have also been made into various methods in order to not only improve functionality but also performance and stability

== Robotium 1.8.0 ==
It brings new functionality as well as 
many bug fixes and improvements in the existing code. 

*New Functionality:*
   * getButton(String text), getText(String text) and getEditText(String text) which will return the view that displays a certain text so that questions can be asked directly to the view object it self
   * getView(int id) has also been added which will return a view depending on its id
   * searchText(String text, boolean onlyVisible), searchButton(String text, boolean onlyVisible) which will only search for visible views on the screen
   * isToggleButtonChecked(String text) and isToggleButtonChecked(int index) will check if a {{{ToggleButton}}} is checked
   * isSpinnerTextSelected(int index, String text) and isSpinnerTextSelected(String text) will check if a spinner text is selected 
   * sendKey(Solo.CALL) and sendKey(Solo.ENDCALL) has been added to the existing keys

*Re-written functionality:*
   * enterText() that works in a whole new way now and will work much better and faster then the last solution for entering text
   * scrollDown() and scrollUp() have been optimized and also now check for and locate a draggable area before trying to scroll

== Robotium 1.7.1 ==
Fix to a problem where sometimes 
Robotium would not return to the shown activity after a dialog was 
shown. That problem is now fixed and probably it fixes a 
lot of other issues that people have experienced. Besides that, some 
other small bugfixes have been made. 

== Robotium 1.7.0 ==
In this release a great deal of time and effort went into improving 
the existing functionality.

*New Functionality:*
  * clickLongOnScreen()
  * clickOnText(String text, int matches, boolean scroll)
  * getImage()
  * getString() 
  * goBackToActivity()
  * clickOnMenuItem(String text, boolean subMenu)
  * waitForActivity() and more. 

== Robotium 1.6.0 ==
A lot of improvements have been done to the previous methods especially the click, search and scroll methods. Also a lot more logging is done and more precise Assert messages are shown. 

*New Functionality:*
   * assertLowMemory()
   * clickOnImageButton()
   * clickOnCheckBox()
   * isCheckBoxChecked()
   * getCurrentCheckBoxes()
   * getCurrentImageButtons()
   * waitForText(String text, int matches, long timeout, boolean scroll)
   * searchText(Stringsearch,intmatches,booleanscroll)
   * clickOnEditText()
   * clickOnText(Stringtext, int match)
   * clickLongOnText(String text, int match) 

== Robotium 1.5.0 ==
This release includes full support for Dialogs, Toasts, Menus and 
Context Menus for all the methods in Robotium! 

*New Functionality:*
   * waitForText()
   * clearEditText()
   * clickOnMenu()
   * sendKeys()
   * isRadioButtonChecked()
   * waitForDialogToClose()

== Robotium 1.4.0 Released ==
A lot of work has gone into optimizing and improving the existing
functionality. More or less all the methods have been modified and
improved. Robotium is now well prepared for a wide variety of Android
applications.
There is no need to add the GET_TASKS permission tag into the application that will be tested! No modification at all of the application that will be tested is needed.

*New Functionality:*
   * setActivityOrientation()
   * clickInList()
   * clickOnToggleButton() 

== Robotium 1.3.1 Released ==
A lot of work has gone into making it even faster then before. It is
also more robust now as more checks are done before Robotium tries to
do something. This results in a more stable and secure execution.

*New Functionality:*
   * getAllOpenedActivities()
   * scrollDownList()
   * clickLongOnScreen()
   * clickLongOnTextAndPress()

== Robotium 1.2.1 Released ==
A lot of work has been done to improve the architecture for faster execution. Robotium-Solo is now blazingly fast. Also most of the previous methods have been rewrittenin order to improve speed, decision makings and stability.

*New Functionality:*
   * assertCurrentActivity()
   * pressSpinnerItem()
   * getCurrentListViews()

== Robotium 1.1.1 Released ==
Changes include clicking on menu items, clicking on back hard key, much more
advanced enterText() that works in all text fields. Also general
optimizations of the code has been performed for a stable and fast
execution. 

*New Functionality:*
   * clickOnMenuItem(String text)
   * goBack()
   * enterText(int index, String text)