#summary Start using Robotium
#labels Featured

== Getting started ==
Follow the instructions below if you want to see how Robotium works and how an Android test project looks like. If you want to create a new test project where you have the source code then follow [http://wiebe-elsinga.com/blog/?p=300 this guide.] If you only have the apk then download this [http://robotium.googlecode.com/files/RobotiumStepByStep.pdf tutorial.]When you have created a new test project you need to add the [http://robotium.googlecode.com/files/robotium-solo-1.7.1.jar Robotium jar] to the build path. In Eclipse that is done by right clicking on the test project --> Properties --> Java Build Path --> Add (external) Jar.


== Example test project ==

In the Downloads section you will find [http://robotium.googlecode.com/files/ExampleTestProject_v7.zip ExampleTestProject_v7.zip] which is an example test project created in Eclipse to test !NotePad. !NotePad is a sample project located in AndroidSDK/platforms/android-2.1/samples/!NotePad. 

In Eclipse click on File --> New --> Project --> Android Project --> Create Project from existing source --> !NotePad. 

Then you import !ExampleTestProject_v7.zip by clicking on File --> Import --> Existing Project into workspace --> Select archive file --> !ExampleTestProject_v7.zip.

Then you can run these test cases either on the emulator or on device. You right click the test project and select Run As --> Run As Android JUnit Test.

If you have problems running the test project or some Robotium functionality is not working as it should then please add the following tag to the AndroidManifest.xml:

<uses-sdk android:targetSdkVersion="YOUR_VERSION" /> 

 
Example of a test case (test case spanning over multiple activities where !EditorActivity is the first activity):

{{{
 
public class EditorTest extends
		ActivityInstrumentationTestCase2<EditorActivity> {

  private Solo solo;

  public EditorTest() {
		super("com.test.editor",
				EditorActivity.class);
  }

  public void setUp() throws Exception {
  	solo = new Solo(getInstrumentation(), getActivity());
  }
  
  public void testPreferenceIsSaved() throws Exception {
  
  	        solo.sendKey(Solo.MENU);
		solo.clickOnText("More");
		solo.clickOnText("Preferences");
		solo.clickOnText("Edit File Extensions");
		Assert.assertTrue(solo.searchText("rtf"));
		
		solo.clickOnText("txt");
		solo.clearEditText(2);
		solo.enterText(2, "robotium");
		solo.clickOnButton("Save");
		solo.goBack();
		solo.clickOnText("Edit File Extensions");
		Assert.assertTrue(solo.searchText("application/robotium"));
		
  }

   @Override
   public void tearDown() throws Exception {

	try {
		solo.finalize();
	} catch (Throwable e) {

		e.printStackTrace();
	}
	getActivity().finish();
	super.tearDown();

  }
}
}}}